README.md, before:

Receptor
========

Receptor is an overlay network intended to ease the distribution of 
work across a large and dispersed collection of workers.  Receptor nodes
establish peer-to-peer connections with each other via existing networks.
Once connected, the Receptor mesh provides datagram (UDP-like) and stream
(TCP-like) capabilities to applications, as well as robust unit-of-work
handling with resiliency against transient network failures.

Terminology and Concepts

* _Node_: A single running instance of Receptor.
* _Node ID_: The network address of a Receptor node.  Currently a simple string.
* _Service_: An up-to-8-character string identifying an endpoint on a Receptor
  node that can receive messages.  Analogous to a port number in TCP or UDP.
* _Backend_: A type of connection between nodes that the Receptor network
  protocol can run over.  Current backends include TCP, UDP and websockets.
* _Unit of work_: A single task that is intended to be run on a node.  For
  example, a command invocation or an Ansible playbook.
* _Response_: A single item from a stream of responses arising from the
  execution of a unit of work.  For Ansible playbooks, these are job events.
* _Controller_: An application-level process that creates units of work and
  sends them to nodes to be executed.
* _Worker_: A process that binds to a Receptor service and registers itself as
  capable of executing jobs of a particular type.

Use as a Go library

This code can be imported and used from Go programs.  The main libraries are
`netceptor`, which implements the network protocol, and `workceptor` which
implements the unit-of-work handling.  See the `example/` directory for
examples of using these libraries from Go.

Use as a command-line tool

The `receptor` command runs a Receptor node with access to all included
backends and services.  See `receptor --help` for details.

Proxy services

The command-line tool includes services that implement network proxies
via TCP, UDP or (on Linux) tun interfaces.  For example, the following
command will start a TCP proxy that listens for TCP connections on port
1234 on localhost, and then forwards each connection to port 4321.

```sh
receptor --node-id standalone --local-only \
    --tcp-inbound-proxy port=1234 remotenode=standalone remoteservice=proxy \
    --tcp-outbound-proxy address=localhost:4321 service=proxy
```

Unit-of-work handling

The `workceptor` library will handle unit-of-work management.  This is still
in progress.

Commit message:

Update README with pointer to python-receptor

README.md, after:

# Python Receptor and the 0.6 versions

As of June 25th, this repo is the Go implementation of Receptor. If you are
looking for the older Python version of Receptor, including any 0.6.x version,
it is now located at https://github.com/project-receptor/python-receptor.

---

Receptor
========

Receptor is an overlay network intended to ease the distribution of 
work across a large and dispersed collection of workers.  Receptor nodes
establish peer-to-peer connections with each other via existing networks.
Once connected, the Receptor mesh provides datagram (UDP-like) and stream
(TCP-like) capabilities to applications, as well as robust unit-of-work
handling with resiliency against transient network failures.

Terminology and Concepts

* _Node_: A single running instance of Receptor.
* _Node ID_: The network address of a Receptor node.  Currently a simple string.
* _Service_: An up-to-8-character string identifying an endpoint on a Receptor
  node that can receive messages.  Analogous to a port number in TCP or UDP.
* _Backend_: A type of connection between nodes that the Receptor network
  protocol can run over.  Current backends include TCP, UDP and websockets.
* _Unit of work_: A single task that is intended to be run on a node.  For
  example, a command invocation or an Ansible playbook.
* _Response_: A single item from a stream of responses arising from the
  execution of a unit of work.  For Ansible playbooks, these are job events.
* _Controller_: An application-level process that creates units of work and
  sends them to nodes to be executed.
* _Worker_: A process that binds to a Receptor service and registers itself as
  capable of executing jobs of a particular type.

Use as a Go library

This code can be imported and used from Go programs.  The main libraries are
`netceptor`, which implements the network protocol, and `workceptor` which
implements the unit-of-work handling.  See the `example/` directory for
examples of using these libraries from Go.

Use as a command-line tool

The `receptor` command runs a Receptor node with access to all included
backends and services.  See `receptor --help` for details.

Proxy services

The command-line tool includes services that implement network proxies
via TCP, UDP or (on Linux) tun interfaces.  For example, the following
command will start a TCP proxy that listens for TCP connections on port
1234 on localhost, and then forwards each connection to port 4321.

```sh
receptor --node-id standalone --local-only \
    --tcp-inbound-proxy port=1234 remotenode=standalone remoteservice=proxy \
    --tcp-outbound-proxy address=localhost:4321 service=proxy
```

Unit-of-work handling

The `workceptor` library will handle unit-of-work management.  This is still
in progress.
