docs/source/k8s.rst, before:

Kubernetes work
===============

Workceptor has the ability to launch Kubernetes pods to perform work.

foo.yml

.. code-block:: yaml

    ---
    - node:
        id: foo

    - log-level:
        level: Debug

    - tcp-listener:
        port: 2222

    - control-service:
        service: control
        filename: /tmp/foo.sock

    - work-kubernetes:
        worktype: kubeit
        authmethod: kubeconfig
        allowruntimeauth: true
        allowruntimepod: true
        allowruntimeparams: true

kubeitpod.yml

.. code-block:: yaml

    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Pod
    metadata:
        generateName: myapp-pod-
        labels:
            app: myapp
    spec:
        containers:
        - name: worker
          image: busybox
          command: ['sh', '-c', 'echo The Pod is running && sleep 6 && exit 0']
        restartPolicy: Never

Note: at least one of the containers in the pod spec must be named "worker". This is the container that stdin is passed into, and that stdout is retrieved from.

.. code-block:: yaml

    $ receptorctl --socket /tmp/foo.sock work submit kubeit --param secret_kube_config=@$HOME/.kube/config --param secret_kube_pod=@kubeitpod.yml --no-payload
    Result:  Job Started
    Unit ID: FfpQ4zk2

``secret_kube_config`` The contents of kubeconfig file. The "@" tells receptorctl to read in a file name and pass the contents on.

``secret_kube_pod`` The contents of a pod definition. The "@" tells receptorctl to read in a file name and pass the contents on.

Runtime Params
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Additional parameters can be passed in when issuing a "work submit" command, using "--param" in receptorctl. These params must have the correct ``allowruntime*`` fields specified in the ``work-kubernetes`` definition.

.. list-table::
    :widths: 25 50 25
    :header-rows: 1

    * - param
      - description
      - permission
    * - kube_image
      - container image to use
      - allowruntimecommand
    * - kube_command
      - command container should run
      - allowruntimecommand
    * - kube_params
      - parameters to pass into kube_command
      - allowruntimeparams
    * - kube_namespace
      - kubernetes namespace to use
      - allowruntimeauth
    * - secret_kube_config
      - kubeconfig to authenticate with
      - allowruntimeauth
    * - secret_kube_pod
      - pod definition
      - allowruntimepod
    * - pod_pending_timeout
      - allowed duration for pod to be Pending
      - allowruntimeparams

``pod_pending_timeout`` is provided as a string, for example 1h20m30s or 30m10s.

Commit message:

update k8s docs
Include step to start receptor control service and note that you must have a tcp-listener or tcp-peer

docs/source/k8s.rst, after:

Kubernetes work
===============

Workceptor has the ability to launch Kubernetes pods to perform work.

foo.yml

.. code-block:: yaml

    ---
    - node:
        id: foo

    - log-level:
        level: Debug

    - tcp-listener:
        port: 2222

    - control-service:
        service: control
        filename: /tmp/foo.sock

    - work-kubernetes:
        worktype: kubeit
        authmethod: kubeconfig
        allowruntimeauth: true
        allowruntimepod: true
        allowruntimeparams: true

kubeitpod.yml

Note at this time it is necessary to have either a tcp-listener or a tcp-peer to be able to start the control service. See https://github.com/ansible/receptor/issues/518

.. code-block:: yaml

    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Pod
    metadata:
        generateName: myapp-pod-
        labels:
            app: myapp
    spec:
        containers:
        - name: worker
          image: busybox
          command: ['sh', '-c', 'echo The Pod is running && sleep 6 && exit 0']
        restartPolicy: Never

Note: at least one of the containers in the pod spec must be named "worker". This is the container that stdin is passed into, and that stdout is retrieved from.

First, we need the receptor control service running in order to be able to start a kubernetes work unit. 

.. code-block:: sh

    $ receptor -c foo.yml
    DEBUG 2022/01/17 10:05:56 Listening on TCP [::]:2222                                          
    INFO 2022/01/17 10:05:56 Running control service control                                      
    INFO 2022/01/17 10:05:56 Initialization complete 
   
Now we can submit a kubernetes work unit.

.. code-block:: yaml

    $ receptorctl --socket /tmp/foo.sock work submit kubeit --param secret_kube_config=@$HOME/.kube/config --param secret_kube_pod=@kubeitpod.yml --no-payload
    Result:  Job Started
    Unit ID: FfpQ4zk2

``secret_kube_config`` The contents of kubeconfig file. The "@" tells receptorctl to read in a file name and pass the contents on.

``secret_kube_pod`` The contents of a pod definition. The "@" tells receptorctl to read in a file name and pass the contents on.

Runtime Params
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Additional parameters can be passed in when issuing a "work submit" command, using "--param" in receptorctl. These params must have the correct ``allowruntime*`` fields specified in the ``work-kubernetes`` definition.

.. list-table::
    :widths: 25 50 25
    :header-rows: 1

    * - param
      - description
      - permission
    * - kube_image
      - container image to use
      - allowruntimecommand
    * - kube_command
      - command container should run
      - allowruntimecommand
    * - kube_params
      - parameters to pass into kube_command
      - allowruntimeparams
    * - kube_namespace
      - kubernetes namespace to use
      - allowruntimeauth
    * - secret_kube_config
      - kubeconfig to authenticate with
      - allowruntimeauth
    * - secret_kube_pod
      - pod definition
      - allowruntimepod
    * - pod_pending_timeout
      - allowed duration for pod to be Pending
      - allowruntimeparams

``pod_pending_timeout`` is provided as a string, for example 1h20m30s or 30m10s.
