docs/source/receptorctl/receptorctl_work_submit.rst, before:

-----------
work submit
-----------

.. contents::
   :local:

``receptorctl work submit`` requests a Receptor node to run a unit of work.

Command syntax: ``receptorctl --socket=<socket_path> work submit [<<Options>>] <<WorkType>> [<<Runtime Parameters>>]``

``socket_path`` is the control socket address for the Receptor connection.
   The default is ``unix:`` for a Unix socket.
   Use ``tcp://`` for a TCP socket.
   The corresponding environment variable is ``RECEPTORCTL_SOCKET``.

.. code-block:: text

  ss --listening --processes --unix 'src = unix:<socket_path>'
  Netid         State          Recv-Q         Send-Q                   Local Address:Port                     Peer Address:Port        Process
  u_str         LISTEN         0              4096                   /tmp/local.sock 38130170                            * 0            users:(("receptor",pid=3226769,fd=7))

``ps -fp $(pidof receptor)``
``lsof -p <pid>``

``WorkType`` specifies an execution request type for the work unit.  Use the ``receptorctl status`` command to find available work types for Receptor nodes.

``Runtime Parameters`` are parameters passed by Receptor to the work command.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Work submit options
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can use the following options with the ``work submit`` command:
 - ``-a``, ``--param <<KEY>>=<<VALUE>>`` adds a Receptor parameter in key=value format.
 - ``-f``, ``--follow`` keeps Receptorctl to remain attached to the job and displays the job results.
 - ``-l``, ``--payload-literal <<TEXT>>`` uses the value of ``<<TEXT>>`` as the literal unit of work data.
 - ``-n``, ``--no-payload`` sends an empty payload.
 - ``--node <<Node ID>>`` is the Receptor node on which the work runs. The default is the local node.
 - ``-p``, ``--payload <<TEXT>>`` specifies the file that contains data for the unit of work. Specify ``-`` for standard input (stdin).
 - ``--rm`` releases the work unit after completion.
 - ``--signwork`` digitally signs remote work submissions to standard output (stdout).
 - ``--tls-client <<TEXT>>`` specifies the TLS client that submits work to a remote node.
 - ``--ttl <<TEXT>>`` specifies the time to live (TTL) for remote work requests in ``##h##m##s`` format; for example ``1h20m30s`` or ``30m10s``. Use the ``receptorctl work list`` command to display units of work on Receptor nodes and determine appropriate TTL values.

Commit message:

Change from bullet list to table

docs/source/receptorctl/receptorctl_work_submit.rst, after:

-----------
work submit
-----------

.. contents::
   :local:

``receptorctl work submit`` requests a Receptor node to run a unit of work.

Command syntax: ``receptorctl --socket=<socket_path> work submit [<<Options>>] <<WorkType>> [<<Runtime Parameters>>]``

``socket_path`` is the control socket address for the Receptor connection.
   The default is ``unix:`` for a Unix socket.
   Use ``tcp://`` for a TCP socket.
   The corresponding environment variable is ``RECEPTORCTL_SOCKET``.

.. code-block:: text

  ss --listening --processes --unix 'src = unix:<socket_path>'
  Netid         State          Recv-Q         Send-Q                   Local Address:Port                     Peer Address:Port        Process
  u_str         LISTEN         0              4096                   /tmp/local.sock 38130170                            * 0            users:(("receptor",pid=3226769,fd=7))

``ps -fp $(pidof receptor)``
``lsof -p <pid>``

``WorkType`` specifies an execution request type for the work unit.  Use the ``receptorctl status`` command to find available work types for Receptor nodes.

``Runtime Parameters`` are parameters passed by Receptor to the work command.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Work submit options
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can use the following options with the ``work submit`` command:

.. list-table:: Options
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: auto

    * - Option
      - Description
    * - ``-a``, ``--param <<KEY>>=<<VALUE>>``
      - Adds a Receptor parameter in key=value format.
    * - ``-f``, ``--follow``
      - Keeps Receptorctl to remain attached to the job and displays the job results.
    * - ``-l``, ``--payload-literal <<TEXT>>``
      - Uses the value of ``<<TEXT>>`` as the literal unit of work data.
    * - ``-n``, ``--no-payload``
      - Sends an empty payload.
    * - ``--node <<Node ID>>``
      - Is the Receptor node on which the work runs. The default is the local node.
    * - ``-p``, ``--payload <<TEXT>>``
      - Specifies the file that contains data for the unit of work. Specify ``-`` for standard input (stdin).
    * - ``--rm``
      - Releases the work unit after completion.
    * - ``--signwork``
      - Digitally signs remote work submissions to standard output (stdout).
    * - ``--tls-client <<TEXT>>``
      - Specifies the TLS client that submits work to a remote node.
    * - ``--ttl <<TEXT>>``
      - Specifies the time to live (TTL) for remote work requests in ``##h##m##s`` format; for example ``1h20m30s`` or ``30m10s``. Use the ``receptorctl work list`` command to display units of work on Receptor nodes and determine appropriate TTL values.
